
## Lion GPS Proposal



We will use the Java programming language on the MacOS operating system to develop our program. Android Studio will be our IDE/Development tool of choice. We will use NoSQL via MongoDB for our database and persistent storage needs.

## Team Members

Jason Konikow ```uni: jk4057 ```  
Christopher Thomas ```uni: cpt2132 ```  
Billy Armfield ```uni: wsa2113```  
Luigi Pastore ```uni: lap2204```


## Summary

Lion GPS will be an android application that provides directions for students to their given class' building. It will store previous destinations and a list of locations on campus supplied by the student to a user profile, and retrieve and mutate that information as the app is used. The directions will be generated by our usage of the Google Maps API. The app will also store a user's class schedule.

## Motivation
Often times when starting a new semester because of the sprawling nature of Columbia's campus it is common to have class in a building you are unfamiliar with. The aim of LionGPS is to eliminate the hassle of finding new buildings by providing easy to follow walking instructions from any point on campus, to any building one wants to find. 

## User Stories
* `Routing:`As a student, I want to know where all my class buildings are. My
  conditions of satisfaction are that LionGPS will give me a route from my
  current location to the building of my choice.

* `Destination History:` As a student, I want to see a "recent search" section so I will not have to
  search for the same building multiple times. My conditions of satisfaction
  are that there is a section of the app showing my 10 most recent searches.

* `Map Overlay:` As a student, I want to see an overlay of where their classes reside atop a map of the Columbia campus, so I can have a handy visual reference of where all my classes and seminars reside. 
  
 
* `Building Alias:`As a student, I want to be able to use  the colloquial name of a Columbia building - or the SSOL building code - when finding directions, to avoid having to type the full address of a location on campus. 
 
* `Auto-completion:` As a student, I want to start typing a location, and have the application show recommendations as I type, so I can save time.

* ` Class Schedule` As a student, I want an easy way to keep track of my classes. My
   conditions of satisfaction are that I can create a table of my classes and
   the buildings they are in, and will be able to retrieve this list after
   closing and re-opening the app 

   
## Testing Plan

* `Routing:` A user is routed to the building of their choice when selecting a destination from either the search function, thier recent history or their student schedule. The expected input is a building choice represented internally as a String / GPS coordinate. Expected results are a path that spans from the users starting point to the building they choose. This can be tested by comparing the final destination of the path provided with the GPS coordinate of the inputted building. Further testing will be accomplished with manual testing (from and to) many different locations on Columbia. Failure is defined by recieving incorrect directions.

* `Destination History:` To see the recent search section, the user will open a pane from the side of the map overlay that displays their recent destinations. The expected input would be a user profile for which the history must be loaded, and the expected output is the list of previously searched destinations. This can be tested by generating user profiles and having a random list of buildings those profiles will request directions to. We then will compare the list of searched destinations with the populated history for each given profile. Failure is defined by variance in the list of searches and the displayed history, or a failure to store the history within a profile upon closing the app. 

* `Map Overlay:` The main 'page' of the app will be taken up predominently by a map overlay of Columbias Campus, specifically the user's current location. The expected input will the GPS position of the user, and the expected output is an overlay that accurately depicts the user's position. This can be tested manually by entering the overlay from different points on campus and verifying that LionGPS is displaying the correct portion of campus in its GUI. Failure is defined by the map not centering on the users position, or otherwise showing the wrong section of campus, or not appearing at all. 

* `Building Alias:` The user should be able to search by an alias,  be it a colloquial name of a building on campus e.g. `Hamilton` or a building code like `HAM` into LionGPS, and have the app recognize the location associated with that name. The expected input is a string denoting an alias for a given building, and the expected output is the GPS location of the building associated with the alias. This can be tested by entering all known aliases for each building on Columbia and ensuring the location retrieved is that of the correct building. Failure is defined by valid seacches returning incorrect results, non existent results or returning the location of an incorrect building.   

* `Auto-completion:` When using the search bar a helpful autocomplete should provide suggestions to the user based on the current characters entered into the search. The expected input is a string and the expected output is a list of possible entries. This can be tested by comparing the suggestions generated by searches in LionGPS to a "gold standard" list of suggestions for any given substring of acceptable building aliases. Failure is is defined by valid suggestions missing from the generated list when compared against the gold standard. 

* `Class Schedule:` A student should be able to enter, view or modify their student schedule on the user profile page and press on a class to get directions to it. The expected input is a query for a user profile, and the expected output is a table denoting the schedule. This can be tested by ensuring schedules are stored properly, reflect acurate data, and continue to do so after being modified. Failure is defined by a non existant or incorrect schedule being displayed, failure to save the schedule to profile, or an inability to retrieve directions to class buildings via the schedule. 

## Stretch Stories

*Note: Testing plans not included for stretch stories, but if a stretch story becomes realistically acheivable one will be added for it.*

* As a student, I want to be able to plug into SSOL to automate the process of transfering my class locations into the app.
 
* As a student, I want to log into my apps with as
  little friction as possible. My conditions of satisfaction are that I can log
  into LionGPS using authentificaiton with facebook.

* As a student, I want to find new friends who are taking the same classes.
  My conditions of satisfaction are that there is a "share to Facebook" button
  which will let other budding young Lions find me. 

* As a student, I want to tap on a building on the map to learn more
  about it. My conditions of satisfaction are that a link will redirect me to
  wikicu.com.

* As a student, I want to know where all the libraries are. My
   conditions of satisfaction are that I can tap a "Libraries" button on the home screen and a map will appear
   on the screen with pins dropped on each building with a library. 

* As a student, I want to know where all the coffee shops on
   campus are. My conditions of satisfaction are that I can tap a "Coffee
   Shops" button and a map will appear on the screen with pins dropped on each building with a coffee shop.



